OK so now we have Google authentication sign as well as our application listening to authentication
state changes on our firebase back in what we need now is to actually figure out how to sign out of
our off service now buyer base makes it very easy.
Because on this off service we actually just call sign out and it will sign us out but let's figure
out where to put it in our application.
So right now if we look at the final application we actually see that there's a sign up button in the
header when a user is signed in so let's implement that the first thing we have to do is make sure that
our header is aware of when a user is signed in or signed out by giving it the app its current user
state.
So we're just going to pass it in as a prop. This dot state DOT current user so if it's null it will
pass in null if it's an object such as our user object it will pass that in and then inside of our head
component we want to first import that author library from our fire base utilize
and then we want to d structure the current user property that we're passing into our header from our
app and what we'll do is we'll use a ternary operator to conditionally render either a div if it's true
or a link if it's false now because of the nature of the ternary operator if current user is an object
it will evaluate to true therefore it will render a div if it is false such as if it was a null null
evaluates to false and then it will render the link.
So what we will pass in is a div with the class name option.
So we want the same styling as our link but we want it div because we want the padding that comes with
it so that our button is click is clickable it's bigger and then we're gonna put an on click a method
that is a functional callback and an anonymous function that calls off dot sign out which is provided
to us by the firebase auth library and then we're just going to say here sign out and in our link we're
also going to have the class name of option except it's going to take us to slash sign in here we're
just going to say sign in and now if we check our application normally there's a sign in but if we're
signed in with our Google account
instead it'll be a sign out button which if we click will sign us out but we don't have our cursor pointer
on it.
So let's just add that to our styling here inside of our option we'll put cursor pointer just to be
sure OK.
Now let's also style this button box so that it looks closer to what we had in the Google styling box
as we see in our final application.
Well let's go to our custom button component and what we'll do is conditionally render a class name
based off of a prop.
So we'll call the prop is Google sign in and then we will conditionally render using string interpolation
the class name of Google sign in.
Otherwise we'll render an empty string and then we will also always render custom button.
Now we're able to do this because with react everything is javascript.
So we have a lot of flexibility here.
And using this we will now render this class of Google sign and if this property is true if not then
there will be an empty string and custom button is also always rendered.
Now let's go into our styles and let's add in the styling for Google sign.
So we've got it add the ampersand.
If we don't then we will notice that this SAS file will end up applying the styles to a child element
with the class Google sign and of custom button.
But we want them to both be on the same element.
So what the ampersand it will say that because the ampersand is the same as saying custom button dot
google sign and with no space in between so by doing that now we will say background color goes to a
Google Blue which I have here it is hash for 2 8 5 4 and then we'll also say that there is a color of
whites because we want white text and then on hover we're also going to change the background color
to a darker shade of our Google blue 3 5 7 8 8 8.
Now I have them in front of me so I definitely don't memorize hex colors in my spare time but we're
also going to add a border of none to our star here and then in our sign in component we want to apply
them so well say is Google sign in so this property will get past the value of true if we don't pass
a value to it which we want because we want this to help us conditionally render that class that we
just wrote on custom button and now if we look we'll see that we have our styling so let's start our
sign and to look more similar and more aligned to our final application.
So in our sign in component in our styles we're going to switch this over to three eighty pixels and
then we're also going to wrap those buttons in a div call with the class name of button
and then we will apply
to this buttons class display flex and justify content space between now if we look our buttons are
the same width as our sign and component but there's a little bit of extra padding here.
The reason for this is because of the way that box sizing is set in all browsers box sizing value which
is a CSX property that's set in all browsers is such a way that our margins padding and borders all
actually affect the overall size of our components.
If we were to inspect this we'll see that's what happens with our form input.
You see how there is a little bit of an extra protrusion despite the fact that the orange ends before
it while that's actually the padding value on our input that's modifying that if we got rid of this
we'll see that our element is now in line.
So how we change this is inside of our app dot CSX.
We are going to say this universal selector.
So for every element we want.
Box sizing should be border box and now our elements are red line because the padding the margin and
the border do not affect the element size.
So let's commit our code so let's check what we have we added in our firebase so let's say integrated
firebase into application created sign in page with sign in component and sign in with Google.
And now let's just push this to master.
So now what we want to add to our application is email and password sign in.
But the only way to do that is we actually have to have email and password based users in our database
so that firebase knows whether or not that that user is true.
I get it actually exists.
So in order to do that we have to take a deeper look at Firebase firestorm.
So let's do that.